Victor, Uncle, thank you so much for
being here.
We will do one thing, we will analyze
Application and we will do it with
the aim of better understanding
the SaaS business model and
we will also analyze the growth
engine.
I will ask you and we will see.
What is Application?
Who are they?
That is, explain who your followers
are, what value do you offer them,
how do you generate revenue?
Application.com is a website you
enter without having any idea
of programming.
You create an app, 500 programming,
choose a template, a few
modules, put your colors, your
social networks and you mount
an app that sells, reserves,
that has continuous multimedia,
what you need.
We have focused a lot on Pime customers,
on a customer who wants to jump to
the mobile, who doesn’t know how to
do it, who doesn’t have a brutal investment
to get there and who for 10 euros
a month has his app, has
it in the Apple Store and
begins to generate business.
Do you have a quota?
There are three price plans,
one of 10 euros, one of 30 and one
of 50.
Depending on the functionalities
you have, PUS notifications,
you are getting a plan or another
and also the customer service
we provide.
That is, the client is a software
you already have developed,
that we have a revenue stream that
is subscription.
Our business model is SAS, software
as a service, which
means you pay month by month
or year by year.
If you pay year by year you
get a 15% discount on the total
price.
You are advancing annually and then we
don’t have premium features, that is,
you don’t have one shot payments, you
don’t have a single payment, it’s all
month by month or year by year.
The priority of the model is that
we have a technology that has a
lot of business margin and that we
are going to recover it by
gradually charging the customer in monthly fees.
For our type of customer it is very
convenient because it does not make
a huge initial investment, eliminates
risk and at the same time for
us it is fine.
Basically it is ultra-scalable
because there is no additional variable
cost or very low, I imagine that
very low can have a million more
users, by exaggerating, would
be a bit like.
This is a B2B SAS and if we go
to B2C the consumer is also growing
a lot, for example on Netflix.
Today we all have some subscription,
whether it’s Spotify, Netflix,
the own phone quote, you
pay month to month every month
and it’s a subscription mode.
It is the same business model, the
telephone operator.
I love the model for two things,
one because it is actually totally
scalable and mostly because it
did not generate friction.
I like models where there is no business
friction, you have to enter a
customer, register, create your
app, pay, continue to pay and
there is no need for incredible
friction, especially humans,
you don’t need to have a weight
of 2000 workers to have
10,000 customers.
I come from strategic consulting
and when I was in that world the software
as a service seemed to me the most
attractive in the world because each
project is a wear, people
etc. and you have developed a
software that the customer enters
directly, it provides a lot of
value but does not need almost
any interaction and I also imagine
that the better the software,
that yours is spectacular,
the better it is, because
it requires less support.
SaaS has many priorities, it also
has many bad things, especially
the principle.
You’re paying customers
a very little.
That is, I love that.
We know what the software as a
service model is, in your
case it is B2B.
Let us look at the main weaknesses.
It is that the first year and a half
your box, if you need a lot of financial
lungs, you need a paste to survive
a year and a half because you are
charging customers very little by
little and you are normally not
Facebook or Spotify and you do not
get 800,000 customers.
That’s because the cost of
customer capture, I understand
that the cost of customer
capture you don’t recover
until a few months
pass.
That is, you have to fil very fine
and optimize your CAC, your acquisition
thing, because otherwise, you
never get it back.
A SaaS is defined in the end as if your
CAC is lower than your lifetime
value, the business works.
When you’re going to see an investor, the
first thing you ask yourself is
how many months it takes to recover the
passport.
We call it the CAC payback.
If your CAC payback is 12 months,
you have to fund for 12 months
all that growth.
Then you have to focus on your
client being 13 months, at least
to earn him 10 euros, which
probably is not profitable, earn
only 10 euros.
At the end you realize that the
great weakness is that, that at
first you have to throw
out a lot of money, a lot
of money to survive.
That’s what it does is that for
young companies and such can not be
financed with their own resources
and you have to go to funds,
etc.
It’s not like an e-commerce,
that from the first day you
are buying a wallet, glasses, a bag
and it seems like no, but your
cash flow can be managed better
from the beginning.
You need a very strong investment
in the beginning to grow.
The second big weakness of the
model is that you have to control the
lower very well.
If you need a very good software,
the client will register.
Your return to this value is milk,
you make a video that is wonderful,
you have an investment in your website
to register that is pear, but
if the product is not good,
here the product is important.
You can buy a wallet and
buy it.
When you come home and say that
shit of your wallet.
It is that you have the challenge of
every month to fall in love with
the customer because if you don’t get
down and as above you will be left
before you have recovered what you
invested in capturing him.
What happens is that in some
cases also generate exchange
costs, a very high lock-
in effect in the software
world.
I have met software colleagues
who their product was a lot to
be very good, but the cost
of changing, the software
was so stuck in the company’
s trips.
Actually, now probably in the key,
if you’re not a brutal pain, if
your software doesn’t generate
a pain and a brutal need to
that customer to go half wrong,
what is the first thing I take
away?
I put the opposite case in
accounting software, ERPs and
so on.
They cannot be changed because they
have trained all their employees on that software.
All operations are attached
to the software.
In your case maybe...
In our case it’s a weakness because
the API of a business isn’t something
that’s hard to change for a company.
Yes, it is true that we had
one thing happening and we
had a very clear metrics that
it was the third or fourth month
our client started to profit the app.
And as soon as he started earning
money, it was very difficult for the
customer to leave.
It profited.
He is paying between two a month and
started earning $150 a month, $200 a
month.
You became a necessity for the
client because he was cutting
off an income that was more
or less good for him.
You almost turned into a lever
for the customer to generate
revenue.
It was the most important
value we had.
Start a business and make money
from mobile.
That was the big proposal.
What is happening?
We focused a lot on restaurants,
e-commerce, very practical
things so that I could
get a quick return.
Because if you stick to a
school, the app of a school.
As soon as he sees that he is sick,
he goes out.
If the app is only informative, if the app
is supporting or something like that,
it effectively cuts you.
At first, especially in the first
year and a half, we were very
insistent about keeping people
making their app make money.
We did downloads, we dynamized
the app a lot so that
they could get out and
stay with us.
Then it was no longer necessary.
The business took another action
and worked alone.
But how hard it is to have a good product
from the minute zero so that it works
and so that people don’t give up,
is something that, look, it’
s not to launch a web and it’
s actually a challenge.
Then, as a wonderful thing about SaaS,
it is that every month you raise
the person of the business and you
know that you will get in x 1000
euros, more or less, but there will
be the subscription model, every
month is the customer.
Of course, that recurrence generates
a lot of security and that I imagine
that the most professional investors,
etc., are what they are looking for.
They look because you can project very well.
The SaaS, all investors told
us, is the gold egg chicken, as
they put the key on the capture
lever, you have a capture cost
much lower than profitability
and your business really
adds value, the claw.
Here you know how Wix, that you get
your web, the Sage, which
is of accounting, there are many
of these that walk on the key,
walk on the lever and grow like
foam.
In addition, you get feedback,
become the accounting leader
or the leader of any
sector and start growing.
One thing I love about the SaaS
model is the metric.
I love it because it is AVC, it has no complication
and it is very measurable, everything
is very measurable and I love that.
If I carry a pure marketing,
I love measurement, I need it
to live.
I always say that life is a conversion
funnel and in a SaaS it’s
as perfect.
What costs me a click, what costs me
a lead, what costs me that the
uncle ends up being a customer, the
funnel in three parts and there is
the magic after the ground, of the
ARP 1, the middle ticket, the Aptimallu.
We always the investors the worst
thing they told us was, and what is
your MRR?
Until you have 20,000 euros of MRR,
the MRR is the Moulding Recurring
Revenue, which is what you make
monthly subscription income,
until you have 20,000 you do not
come to see me, which you have
not yet given in the target
20,000 euros.
Can you give us some
data on the main metric?
For example, we like the average
ticket per customer month to month,
that is, with the pricing we had to
give 10, 30, 50 euros, was close to
the 30 euros 28 with 50 approximately,
the ARP, the ARP, the Aptimallu,
that we had month to month per
customer, then the Aptimallu,
well that was varying a lot the
first year and a half but we were
able to reach up to 20,000 euros
with costs of captations
that dropped from 200.
What is happening?
One of the keys is that your capture model
has no ceiling, that is, you target
the folder on Facebook and Facebook
continues to attract, continues to attract
and continues to attract customers
in AdWords, on LinkedIn, of course,
where it goes, in what countries,
in what territories, etc.
We had a problem that there was
a time when Facebook worked
very well at first, LinkedIn the
same, Twitter the same, and then
a moment that, you hear, we
hit the ceiling and we got numbers.
The calculation we have made of
the ARP, customer lifetime value,
cost of acquisition of customers, etc.,
is only of what it tells us, it
is of the profitability that we will
get from each of the customers and
how it will be the cash flow, but
of course, then there is another variable
and how big is this, because
one thing is that we can sell it
to 10 people and I have already invested
more and I am losing efficiency,
I can no longer grow, but for
it to be the billionaire round
business, because you have
to be able to multiply that
equation so simple by millions.
Effectively, especially with prices
so low, with average tickets
of 30 euros, if you say an average
ticket of 2000 euros a month,
with each customer you get
along anyway.
Our case was not so, then we were
going to volume and when you started
to have done, because you have to
pull out other channels of
capture, mailing, SMS, more offline
topics, in the end we ended
up finding the channels of
capture in operators, operators
that sold our product and that
worked well and we had good
margin and scalable, but
we found that problem, the roof
of capture and a lot, a lot,
a lot of focus on the soil, the
benchmark is if you exceed the
2% floor in a SaaS model that
you have a monthly ticket of
less than 100 euros, something
fails, something is failing,
then you have to have a
product, a customer attention
and you have to solve a brutal
need for only 2% of customers
to be given down.
We have called that model, forgive
me that you cut, we called him Sticky,
this guy and what we say is the cost
of customer decision is very important,
the cost of customer acquisition
is very important, but in the end
it is a consequence of everything
from the ground and we put some
example, because we talked about
Netflix, I don't know what
the cost of Netflix customer acquisition,
but what Netflix has to do is that
I don't give me down in life
and when I'm 75 years old still
paying the quota and the cost
and they will have spent on
capturing me, I don't know
how much money three years ago.
I’m sure that if you stay two years
on Netflix you’re still and be profitable
for Netflix, I’m 100% convinced,
in fact now Amazon is not a B2B model,
it’s a B2C model, it’s launching
subscriptions like the Prime
Now, it’s thinking of raising them
because it realizes that in
Spain for $19,90 a year the Prime
model is not profitable, then at
the end it’s going to this, to
try as soon as possible to profit
the customer, or you go up
the price or lower the floor or
you take away the cost of
capture ever smaller or improve
your tool.
At the end it is curious because that
is very simple, they are four metrics
and can be explained so, I love, things
are explained in a towel and this
is appropriate to recover it and
it can be that it does not degrade
in life and that your product
is excellent and that the exchange
costs are very high, that in your
case the exchange cost you have
generated because they already
earn money with your application,
then how will they be low.
You take the pen to get that, until
you become a product that really
curves all the needs, a product
in which you create an app, how
many variables there are, techniques,
functionalities, until
you get in the key and it works,
you have to equip with many
verticals, in our case, you will
be launching functionalities
for restaurants, then for e-
commerce, then for clinics,
then until you say here is,
here is where I can throw.
Can you give them data on the number of customers
like this?
Yes, well, they are virtually
public but we were able to 40,000
SMEs in the world, the country
movement, obviously not all were
paying that it would be wonderful
that everyone was paying 10 euros
a month, but it is true that
we had virtually the conversion
of those 40,000 around
10%, we had a mogollon of
SMEs, 40,000 and 5,
000 SMEs paying us
a month.
The Conversion?
Is it a premium model?
Yes, well, you enter, you have, you
still have, I speak of the past but
you can continue using the application,
you enter there, you have to start that
free test in which you create your
application, you can see it, if
you want to publish in the markets
you have to give, it is the first
stopper, you have to go into a addiction,
you have to pay one and then to
send push notifications, so that
the application works really
you have to pay, you don’
t have your 15 days of test
where you test.
We changed a thousand things, before
it was a month, then it was a week,
at the end there are 15 days,
at first it was a boarding one way,
there was a personal assistant
who guided you, the chat was on
the side, we started having
only a price plan of 20 euros a
month, you are trying, to me that’
s what I like, I launch a web that
has four options, to see what is
the best converts, it’
s magic, it’s a mixture of sociology
and marketing very chou.
Yes, sociology, marketing, engineering,
big data, it is very fun because
at the end you handle data of people,
things that go on, why people do
this, why people do the other, then
at the end there is a post of mine
in my medium, if you put on twitter
begged fruits, they will see it,
in which we make public the excel
type that we use to measure the
day-to-day of the company,
and it is very simple, it is to
fill 15 cells in which you are
putting four things and it is
already there, that is why
it is a fashion of the company.
I will put it on the link so
that all students can access it.
Because it is a super simple
model, in the end what I am measuring
is measured by any tool, insta
page, mailchimp, akumba mail, all
these are measuring the same
thing as me because there
is no other thing to measure,
it is something very tangible.
It is true that I put myself in your
place and it is a very attractive
business model because you can effectively
measure it very simply and any improvement
you make you notice very
quickly if it has created value,
if better, etc.
I, for example, when you are in the model
sas, like all models, you end
up saying the model sas, they pay me
10 euros a month, and it is true
that at the end of a advice I always
give is in the pricing theme, which
is a key topic from the beginning,
put them very high because there
is always time to lower them
and measure from the beginning.
They are two things that always
ask me, High prices, measure from
the beginning, you can always lower the
price, you put it at 50 euros, you
will put it at 30, don't worry, if
you see that no one buys you, and
I focus on the product.
A lot of good product team, design,
good engineers, because if not,
the product is core in your company,
then the next phase is to capture,
but if you are not a core product,
you do not capture with
anything.
We stay with that.
Thank you very much, I hope
to see you again.